Orders_Orders are used to direct your colonists to complete tasks, when you have chosen an order you can create a rectangular section by left clicking and dragging, some tiles will appear with a highlight this is a tile that the order can be placed on, by releasing left click the orders will be placed. To cancel placing orders press right click.
Priorities_Priorities affect which tasks your colonists will complete first, they are on a scale of 0-4, 0 being that the colonist will not attempt to complete these types of tasks and 4 being that they will go to this tasks before completing tasks of priority 3-0. You can change the priority level by opening the priorities tab and then pressing on the corresponding colonists task. These priorities are individual to each colonist.
Zones_Zones are areas that store your resources, you can place as many as you like throughout the map, however when you are raided raiders may attempt to steal from these stockpiles. Zones can be placed in the world by opening the zones tab and then clicking on the green zone builder you can then left click and drag to create a rectangular selection when you release left click the zone will be created and any area within the selection that allows for spawning will turn into the zone. You can remove zones by selecting the bulldoze zone button and by simply right clicking on any zone it will be removed or you can left click and drag to remove multiple zones.
Resources_Resources are collected by completing certain tasks such as mining, that will drop stone. These resources will then appear in the world but in order to be used to build they must be placed in zones using the move order. Only resources found in zones will count towards your overall resource count.
Building_You can build different objects in the world by selecting the building tab and then choosing a building from the list, buildings require resources and as soon as you place down an order to build the resources will be removed. If you demolish any building you will be refunded the full cost of the building.
Multiplayer_In order to run a multiplayer session you must have the index.js server running. You can then create or load a game and press escape and press start multiplayer, you will then be prompted to enter the server's ip address, after the ip has been entered press the refresh button to connect as the host. Another player can then open the game and select the join game option in the main menu, they will then be prompted to enter the server's ip address, once entered they can select the refresh button to see a preview of the world and can then select join game.
Saving and loading_In order to save the game you first press enter and then click save this will send you to the save game screen where you can enter a save name and toggle the game's auto save. When auto save is enabled it will save every 5 minutes. When loading a game you will first choose the save name and then choose between the main save that you created or one of the three auto saves.
Raids_Raids will happen periodically throughout the game, depending on how many days have gone by and how far from spawn you have expanded and completed tasks. Raiders can spawn in varying size groups and can either attack a random colonist, destroy a structure, set a fire, or destroy the grass. In order to prevent the raiders from causing chaos you must attack them first.
Health_Your colonists will start out with full health, however throughout the game they may be attacked by raiders, or get burned by a fire. In order to increase your health you will need to find a food source such as berries or fish, these can be gained by completing tasks in the world, you can then select a wounded colonist either from the top bar or by clicking on them in the world and then pressing on their plus button, this will then cause any food sources to appear with a green circle and by pressing any of these your colonist will go over and eat the food, healing them.